README.md, before:

# Nodius

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18+)
- Docker and Docker Compose (for ArangoDB)

### 1. Setup ArangoDB Database

Nodius uses ArangoDB as its database. Follow these steps to set up the database:

#### Start ArangoDB with Docker

```bash
# Navigate to the arrango directory
cd arrango

# Start ArangoDB container
docker-compose up -d

# Check if the container is running
docker ps
```

The ArangoDB server will be available at `http://localhost:8529`.

**Default credentials:**
- Username: `root`
- Password: `azerty`

#### Access ArangoDB Web Panel

1. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8529`
2. Log in with the default credentials (root/azerty)
3. You'll see the ArangoDB web interface

#### Create the Nodius Database

1. In the ArangoDB web panel, click on "DATABASES" in the left sidebar
2. Click on the "+ Add database" button
3. Enter database name: `nodius`
4. Click "Create"

Alternatively, you can create the database using the ArangoDB shell:

```bash
docker exec -it arangodb arangosh --server.password azerty

# In the arangosh shell:
db._createDatabase("nodius");
exit
```

### 2. Import Initial Data (Optional)

If you have a backup file, you can import data into your database:

```bash
# Make sure you're in the project root directory
npm run db:import

# Or with custom options
npm run db:import -- input=./backup/your-backup.json
```

The import script will automatically:
- Create collections if they don't exist
- Insert new documents
- Update existing documents
- Preserve documents not in the backup file

For more details, see the [Import/Export Scripts Documentation](./scripts/README.md).

### 3. Install Dependencies and Start the Application

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Database Backup and Restore

### Export Database

```bash
# Export all data to a JSON file
npm run db:export

# Export to a custom location
npm run db:export -- output=./backup/my-backup.json
```

### Import Database

```bash
# Import from default location
npm run db:import

# Import from custom location
npm run db:import -- input=./backup/my-backup.json
```

For detailed documentation on import/export scripts, see [scripts/README.md](./scripts/README.md).

## 🛠️ Development

### ArangoDB Management

```bash
# Stop ArangoDB
cd arrango && docker-compose down

# Restart ArangoDB
cd arrango && docker-compose restart

# View ArangoDB logs
docker logs arangodb

# Remove ArangoDB container and data (⚠️ destroys all data)
cd arrango && docker-compose down -v
```

### Database Connection Configuration

The default database configuration is:
- URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8529`
- Database: `nodius`
- Username: `root`
- Password: `azerty`

You can override these settings in your application configuration or when running import/export scripts.

Commit message:

Auto-create ArangoDB database if missing
Updated import and server scripts to automatically create the 'nodius' database if it does not exist, improving setup and deployment. Documentation was revised to reflect this change, removing manual database creation steps and clarifying the import process.

README.md, after:

# Nodius

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18+)
- Docker and Docker Compose (for ArangoDB)

### 1. Setup ArangoDB Database

Nodius uses ArangoDB as its database. Follow these steps to set up the database:

#### Start ArangoDB with Docker

```bash
# Navigate to the arrango directory
cd arrango

# Start ArangoDB container
docker compose up --build -d

# Check if the container is running
docker ps
```

The ArangoDB server will be available at `http://localhost:8529`.

**Default credentials:**
- Username: `root`
- Password: `azerty`

#### Access ArangoDB Web Panel (Optional)

1. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8529`
2. Log in with the default credentials (root/azerty)
3. You'll see the ArangoDB web interface

**Note:** The database "nodius" will be created automatically when you run the import script or start the application, so you don't need to create it manually.

### 2. Import Initial Data (Optional)

If you have a backup file, you can import data into your database:

```bash
# Make sure you're in the project root directory
npm run db:import

# Or with custom options
npm run db:import -- input=./backup/your-backup.json
```

The import script will automatically:
- Create the database if it doesn't exist
- Create collections if they don't exist
- Insert new documents
- Update existing documents
- Preserve documents not in the backup file

For more details, see the [Import/Export Scripts Documentation](./scripts/README.md).

### 3. Install Dependencies and Start the Application

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Database Backup and Restore

### Export Database

```bash
# Export all data to a JSON file
npm run db:export

# Export to a custom location
npm run db:export -- output=./backup/my-backup.json
```

### Import Database

```bash
# Import from default location
npm run db:import

# Import from custom location
npm run db:import -- input=./backup/my-backup.json
```

For detailed documentation on import/export scripts, see [scripts/README.md](./scripts/README.md).

## 🛠️ Development

### ArangoDB Management

```bash
# Stop ArangoDB
cd arrango && docker-compose down

# Restart ArangoDB
cd arrango && docker-compose restart

# View ArangoDB logs
docker logs arangodb

# Remove ArangoDB container and data (⚠️ destroys all data)
cd arrango && docker-compose down -v
```

### Database Connection Configuration

The default database configuration is:
- URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8529`
- Database: `nodius`
- Username: `root`
- Password: `azerty`

You can override these settings in your application configuration or when running import/export scripts.
